title: What customers want
date: October 6 2015
---
Let's face it – consumers are presented with constant opportunities to provide feedback. This is not a new challenge and the marketplace is saturated with options, both digital and old–school. Businesses and other organisations supplement feedback forms, surveys and focus groups with social media monitoring, website usability testing, community review boards, individually tailored mobile application and web–based market research platforms. To name a few in the digital domain – Yelp, TripAdvisor, Zomato, SurveyMonkey, UserVoice, Feedbackify, Kampyle, OpinionLab, IdeaScale, Yomstar, Satmetrix. The list goes on...

So why Critik? Do customers need another option to get their voices out there to the people that really want to know? We as customers are constantly bombarded with opportunities to tell businesses what we think. Survey forms abound and nearly every online booking, be it for flights, hotels or dinner out, involves some a request to contribute feedback. Despite the most plentiful existence of feedback tools ever, consistent customer engagement is still low.  No tool out there comprehensively alleviates the barriers that prevent an average 75% percent of consumers from providing feedback.  Statistics suggest that survey response is often as little as two percent. Even the current market leader in online surveys claims that a highly successful response rate is in the realm of 20–30%.

So that's the first problem, getting customers to speak up. This is about both quantity (regular consistent engagement) and quality (a healthy ratio of insightful feedback to general rants!). And for us at Critik, we see this as simply a question of customer motivation; how do we unlock what the customer already wants to say?